Explication succincte de MinAres (#4)
optimizers/minares: paper/minares.tex

    \begin{algorithmic}[1]
      \Require $A$, $b$
      \State $v_0 = 0$
      \State $\beta_1 v_1 = b$  \Comment{$\beta_1 > 0$ so that $\|v_1\| = 1$}
      \For{$k$ = 1,~2,~\(\ldots\)}
        \State $\alpha_k = v_k\T A v_k$
        \State $\beta_{k+1} v_{k+1} = A v_k - \alpha_k v_k - \beta_k v_{k-1}$  \Comment{$\beta_{k+1} > 0$ so that $\|v_{k+1}\| = 1$}
      \EndFor
    \end{algorithmic}
  \end{algorithm}

  Define \(V_k := \begin{bmatrix} v_1 & \ldots & v_k \end{bmatrix}\).
  After \(k\) iterations of \Cref{alg:lanczos}, the situation may be summarized as
  \begin{subequations}
    \label{eq:lanczos}
    \begin{alignat}{2}
      \label{eq:lanczos1}
      A V_k & = V_k T_k + \beta_{k+1} v_{k+1} e_k^T && = V_{k+1} T_{k+1,k} \\
      \label{eq:lanczos2}
      V_k^T V_k & = I_k,
    \end{alignat}
  \end{subequations}
  where
  \begin{equation*}
    T_k =
    \bmat{
      \alpha_1 & \beta_2  &          &          \\
      \beta_2  & \alpha_2 & \ddots   &          \\
               & \ddots   & \ddots   & \beta_k  \\
               &          & \beta_k  & \alpha_k
    },
    ~T_{k+1,k} =
    \bmat{
      T_{k} \\
      \beta_{k+1} e_{k}^T
    }.
  \end{equation*}

>   The goal of \MINARES is to solve $A x \approx b$ with the property that $\|Ar_k\|$ is monotonously decreasing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The goal of \MINARES is to solve $A x \approx b$ with the property that $\|Ar_k\|$ is monotonically decreasing.
```

  We seek $x_k = V_k y_k$ where $y_k \in \R^k$.

>   Thanks to~\Cref{alg:lanczos}, $Ab = \beta_1 \alpha_1 v_1 + \beta_1 \beta_2 v_2$ because $\beta_2 v_2 = Av_1 - \alpha_1 v_1$ and the A-residual can be written

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Thanks to~\Cref{alg:lanczos}, $Ab = \beta_1 \alpha_1 v_1 + \beta_1 \beta_2 v_2$ because $\beta_2 v_2 = Av_1 - \alpha_1 v_1$ and the $A$-residual can be written
```

  \begin{align}
    \label{eq:Ar}
    A r_k &= A (b - A V_k y_k) \\
          &= Ab - AV_{k+1} T_{k+1,k} y_k \\
          &= Ab - V_{k+2} T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} y_k \\
          &= \beta_1 \alpha_1 v_1 + \beta_1 \beta_2 v_2 - V_{k+2} T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} y_k \\
          &= V_{k+2}(\beta_1 \alpha_1 e_1 + \beta_1 \beta_2 e_2 - T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} y_k).
  \end{align}

>   Because $V_{k+2}$ is an orthonormal matrix, $\|Ar_k\|$ can be minimized by defining $y_k$ as the solution of the linear least-squares problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Because $V_{k+2}$ has orthonormal columns, $\|Ar_k\|$ can be minimized by defining $y_k$ as the solution of the linear least-squares problem
```

Author: Il faudra penser à faire la même modification pour GPMR : https://github.com/optimizers/gspmr/blob/main/paper/gspmr.tex#L644

  \begin{equation}
    \label{eq:sub-minares}
    \minimize{y_k \in \R^k} \|T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} y_k - \beta_1 \alpha_1 e_1 - \beta_1 \beta_2 e_2\|.
  \end{equation}
  We can remark that
  \begin{equation}
    \label{eq:T}
    T_{k+2,k+1} = \bmat{T_{k+1,k}\T \\ \beta_{k+1} e_k\T + \alpha_{k+1} e_{k+1}\T \\ \beta_{k+2} e_{k+1}\T}
  \end{equation}

>   \begin{equation*}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and
  \begin{equation*}
```

    e_k\T T_{k+1,k} = \beta_k e_{k-1}\T + \alpha_k e_k\T
    \quad \text{and} \quad

>     e_{k+1}\T T_{k+1,k} = \beta_{k+1} e_k\T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    e_{k+1}\T T_{k+1,k} = \beta_{k+1} e_k\T.
```

  \end{equation*}
  Thus,
  \begin{equation*}
    (\beta_{k+1} e_k\T + \alpha_{k+1} e_{k+1}\T) T_{k+1,k} = \beta_{k+1} \beta_k e_{k-1}\T + \beta_{k+1}(\alpha_k + \alpha_{k+1}) e_k\T
  \end{equation*}

>   \begin{equation*}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and
  \begin{equation*}
```

>     \beta_{k+2} e_{k+1}\T T_{k+1,k} = \beta_{k+2} \beta_{k+1} e_k\T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \beta_{k+2} e_{k+1}\T T_{k+1,k} = \beta_{k+2} \beta_{k+1} e_k\T.
```

  \end{equation*}
  Finally,
  \begin{equation*}

>     T_{3,2} T_{2,1} = \bmat{T_{2,1}\T T_{2,1} \\ \gamma_1 \\ \psi_2}, \quad \forall k \ge 2, \quad T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} = \bmat{T_{k+1,k}\T T_{k+1,k} \\ \psi_k e_{k-1}\T + \gamma_k e_k\T \\ \psi_{k+1} e_k\T}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    T_{3,2} T_{2,1} = \bmat{T_{2,1}\T T_{2,1} \\ \gamma_1 \\ \psi_2}, \quad T_{k+2,k+1} T_{k+1,k} = \bmat{T_{k+1,k}\T T_{k+1,k} \\ \psi_k e_{k-1}\T + \gamma_k e_k\T \\ \psi_{k+1} e_k\T} \ (k \ge 2),
```
